 Credit score is a three-digit number that relates to how likely you are to repay debt. Banks and lenders use it to decide whether they’ll approve you for a credit card or loan.
Credit scores also can be beneficial to borrowers. Lenders are less able to use subjective judgment when a score tells them most of what they need to know. Scores shouldn’t discriminate based on how you look or how you act.
Types of scores
You have multiple credit scores. For every scoring model that’s been developed, you have at least one score. Most people refer to FICO credit scores, but you have a different FICO score for each of the three major credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. 
Traditionally, the FICO score is the most popular score used for important loans like home and auto loans. No matter what score you use, most models are looking for a way to predict how likely you are to pay your bills on time.

Credit score is determined by payment history,current debt,length of credit and the type of credit you have.
Payment history: 35 percent. Have you missed payments or defaulted on loans?
Current debt: 30 percent. How much do you owe, and are you maxed out?
Length of credit: 15 percent. Is credit new to you, or do you have a long history of borrowing and paying it back?
New credit: 10 percent. Have you applied for numerous loans in the recent past?
Types of credit: 10 percent. Do you have a healthy mix of different types of debt: auto, home, credit cards, and others?
Some people don’t have a history of borrowing because they're young, they've never taken out a loan before or had a credit card, or for other reasons. For these types of loan applicants, “alternative” credit scores look at other sources of information for payment histories, such as utility bills, rent, and more.

Payment history and current debt combine to account for nearly two-thirds of your score, so it's especially important to do well in those areas. The credit bureaus maintain records of late payments for seven years and also keep track of the percentage of payments missed. The age of the late payments also matters. For example, if Person A has made 95 percent of her payments, she might actually be penalized less than Person B, who has made 98 percent of his payments on time. This can happen if Person A's late payments all are five to seven years old while Person B's late payments all have happened within the last one to two years.
Ideally, you want to make 100 percent of your payments on time, but if you are late, you want to make sure it is an isolated occurrence so that you can put it in the past. The more time passes without any further late payments, the more your score will improve.
The key to scoring well on current debt is making sure most of your available credit is unused. Most experts agree that if 70 percent or more of your available credit is unused, your credit score should benefit, but if less is available, your score will take a hit. For example, if you have two credit cards that each have $5,000 credit limits, you have $10,000 in available credit. To maintain a healthy credit score, you should make sure that the combined balance you are carrying on those cards does not exceed $3,000.
This benefits credit scores because it shows you are able to use credit responsibly without burying yourself in debt.

To improve your credit scores, you have to show that you're a seasoned, responsible borrower who is likely to repay on time. If you build your credit files with positive information, your credit scores will follow. It takes time, but it is possible.
Ways to improve your credit score include; making payments on time,keeping your dept under control,keep old accounts open and keeping old accounts open
Tips on how to save to improve credit score include;eliminate your debt,set saving goals,create an Interest-Bearing account and anualize your spending.
Make Your Payments on Time
The single most important thing you can do to keep your score high, or improve upon your score is to make your payments on time. Payment history is the largest factor that is used to determine your credit score. Payments that are 30 days or more past due will show up on your credit report and negatively impact your score. These negative marks generally stay on your report for seven years.

To make paying on time easier, consider setting up automatic payments from your checking account. If you're not comfortable with automating payments, you can also set up payment reminders with your billers or through your bank account to alert you when a payment due date is on the horizon.

Keep Your Total Debt Load Under Control
With the second largest factor of your credit score being the total amount you owe, it is important to keep borrowing under control. If you currently have a significant amount of outstanding debt, your priority should be to stop borrowing and work toward lowering the balance.

This isn’t always easy, but the only way to improve your debt situation is to stop borrowing or using credit cards and continue to make timely payments that reduce your balance.

In addition, you want to consider how much of your available credit is utilized. For example, having many credit cards that are maxed out, or very close to their limits will negatively impact your score. Two credit cards with a $5,000 limit and a $1,000 balance on each will look much better than a single card with a $2,500 limit and a $2,000 balance.

To better keep track of your balances and spending, use alerts to notify you of new credit card or debit card purchases. You can also set up a separate alert to let you know when your credit card balance reaches a certain amount. Consider scheduling weekly or biweekly payments to your cards to shave off a little interest and nibble away at your balance faster.

Keep Old Accounts Open
Length of credit history is another important credit score factor, so it can be to your advantage to keep older accounts in good standing open. While you want to keep the total number of accounts manageable, sometimes it can hurt your score more to close an old account than to keep it open, even if that means you have more open accounts. Closing an old account when you have a remaining balance can also hurt your score, since it directly affects your credit utilization.

Use Different Types of Credit
A smaller part of your score is based on the types of credit you're using at any given time. Lenders like to see that you can be responsible with be revolving credit, meaning credit cards, as well as loans. If you don't have a credit card yet, you may want to consider opening one. And if you don't have any loans on your credit report, you could take out a small personal loan to help build credit.

Be Careful When Opening New Accounts
While new credit is the least important factor in your score, it is still an important issue to consider. When you are shopping for a new loan or credit card, do your shopping in a relatively short amount of time. You don’t want to have your report show that you are constantly looking for credit.

You also don’t want to open credit accounts you don’t intend to use. It may be tempting to get that additional 10% off when you open that new retail store card but the little bit of money you save may be insignificant when multiple new accounts such as these actually lower your credit score. Not to mention, store cards can often carry higher annual percentage rates compared to traditional credit cards. If you don't pay the balance off right away, the higher APR can negate any savings you received by opening the account.

